this is the Sephora Pro did wreck was
just crack if your bats in today's video
I am doing a favorite brushes and brush
types and why video we always get lots
of questions about brushes and what I'm
using why I'm using it why like it's um
you know animal hair versus synthetic
all that kind of stuff and I talked
about all those kind of things in my
videos but I it's been a really long
time step sat down and been like these
are the brushes I was really like and
here's why so I thought I would do that
for you today I have a lot of different
brains to share with you I have high end
like really really inexpensive and also
mid-range ones and I think that no
matter what kind of makeup you're doing
these rushes you will be able to find
some new brushes that will work for you
so yes I think this video is going to be
quite long because I have narrowed down
all of my brushes and I still want to
talk about all of these plus that one
the disc on the floor so let's get
started I'm going to try to do like a
method to the madness on here do like
brushes I like for foundation blending
blush contour all that kind of stuff
together so hopefully it works out
fingers be crossed start with kabuki use
because they're both right here and
they're very simple to talk about I love
kabuki brushes I like to set makeup with
kabuki brushes because I can really get
a light application with these and I can
also do some really nice blending work
I'm not super picky when it comes to a
kabuki brush I just want something soft
that has a lot of movement and you know
angle is nice also round top is nice
this one I don't know it bright it is
but i'll try to figure it out i got this
in a boxy charm i think and
one is from Coastal Scents a long time
ago i think i paid four dollars for this
brush and i freaking love it i have used
this brush for years and years and years
Real Techniques sponge I love them both
the Real Techniques sponge is the only
thing that have found that is comparable
to the Beauty Blender and its entirety
and to be completely honest I actually
prefer the shape of the Real Techniques
sponge because you do have this flat
side so if I'm using a cream blush or
something I will use this because I can
just really get in there and get it on
my cheek they're both very good huge
price point difference so I think this
is six dollars this is 20 so you know if
you're interested in using a sponge you
might try this one out first and like i
said it's also very very good so you
might not even want to move on to Beauty
Blender don't have a brand new Beauty
Blender to show you that's unblemished
but I do have a brand new Real
Techniques miracle complexion sponge
they actually sent me a couple products
but like i said i've used this for a
long time i've purchased this many times
myself let's talk about foundation
brushes I really wanted to narrow this
category way way down to you because
there are so many foundation brushes I
could talk about and so many foundation
brushes that I use that I really like so
I narrowed it down to five I could
probably narrow it down to three but i'm
going to show you all five so the first
one is from Real Techniques this is the
expert face brush it is an oblong
buffing brush that is kind of like your
traditional foundation brush in shape
like it's rounded and it has that same
kind of with to it that this brush has
however this is a buffing brush so you
can also use it for buffing which I
think this brush is absolutely
phenomenal this brush is one of the best
foundation brushes I have ever used my
entire life and the price point is
extremely low for what it is so I love
this brush because I actually do really
like foundation brushes in the sense to
do makeup on other people but it annoys
me that I that
have to get out a beauty blender or
something else to help blend out the
line too because this does leave lines
this however is kind of the best of both
worlds I'll talk about these to see
others since they are the same brush
just different sizes this is the support
pro mini full coverage brush in 53 and
53.5 so this is the original um you guys
I've talked about this a lot I've used a
lot I love this brush and this is the
mini and they also came out with one
that is the 53 plus it might be called I
don't know but it's bigger than this one
for me that one is much too large for
any sort of face work it really only
works for body makeup which I don't do
too often SAT sign up on it but it does
exist if you're out there and you wish
this was bigger there is a bigger one
the mini one or the half-size one I love
this is actually what i have been using
more frequently than the original but
they're both amazing I know when I first
saw this brush I was like cool another
gimmick but when I tried it I was like
Jesus beautiful Jesus on the cross you
are an amazing brush and I would like to
use you forever so that's what I've been
doing I've had this for almost a year
I've had this for a couple of months and
for application you just hold it very
down very far down on the ferrule and
it's just really easy because you just
brush your foundation on really quickly
it's nice because you can turn the brush
cover more space this way you can turn
the brush vertically and you get like in
between your brows nothing but nice
things to say about these two I love
them so much for my last two foundation
brushes I you know if you've been here
for a while these probably aren't a
surprise to you but I picked them even
though they are very very similar to
each other because they do work
differently I like 14 different things
that I like the other so this is the
sephora mineral powder 45 buffing brush
i have talked about this since the
beginning of my channel i love this
brush i have
two or three of them this is the only
one that I pulled this video though
because you know you don't need to see
three the same brush this is just
amazing this was designed to be used
with mineral powder however because of
the way it is packed and because of the
length of the fibers it is perfect to
use with powders creams or liquids which
is pretty awesome it's not off often
that you find a brush that you could use
with all three and the application is as
seamless with all of them so that's you
know just really bad I've had this brush
for five years maybe four or five years
and still going strong i buy a new one
every so often just so I could have a
new one not necessarily because there's
anything wrong with this one I think
this is actually the original one
because it's the old stem so it lasts
for my long time as well and then the
last foundation brush I have to talk
about is the urban decay good karma
optical blurring brush all of the
writing has rubbed off on this apart
from the optical blurring part this is a
beautiful brush in comparison to the
Sephora they are super duper similar
however the fibers on the urban decay
brush are a little bit looser than the
ones on the Sephora mineral buffing
brush so I really like to use this brush
with creams I think this excels best or
with liquids this does not work in my
opinion very well counters because the
fibers are too loose so powder kind of
get stuck down in there and it kinda
gets gummy and you just really lose a
lot of product during the application so
I like this mainly for creams or liquids
but it's very good very similar to the
support one if I had to pick one I
picked the support though next let's
talk about powder brushes so I've
already talked about the koban piece but
I did pull a couple of other brushes I
really like to use with powders on
myself or on other people I actually
have two of this one I don't know I
grabbed both but added and they're often
real technique
first one is the duo fiber face brush
this comes in a set I believe it's the
story there might be a fourth I can't
remember but these are set I don't
believe you can buy them individually
but it just so happens that they all
three made the cut to be in this video
so I was like all right might as well
shown since i already had picked them
out individually I love this for
applying powders if you just really need
a loose dusting of powder this is great
because you can just very gently apply
and then after you're done you can use
the longer fibers to really brush away
the products and then this I love this
brush so much this is the real
techniques blush brush and let me tell
you I don't just use this for blush I
uses for setting powders I use this for
finishing powders face powders blush
I've used it for bronzer I have used it
for highlight even before so this is
really a great brush that you can do a
lot of different things with again a
very very low price point this one is
older and this one on the right is newer
so I'll hold them up so you kind of see
after a little bit of time and use it
does become more round and less tapered
so let's talk about highlight brushes I
have a stupid amount of highlighting
brushes our brushes i like to use for
highlight you could use for a lot of
things to share with you but I literally
could not cut it down anymore it's a
matter of fact there's two brushes
sitting right over here that I really
would add to the mix but I just you have
to cap it off somewhere you know so
first of all let's talk about these two
beauties these are from prefer list
which is the brand and they are vegan
cruelty-free synthetic brushes these are
great I actually have four burlas
brushes I have these two as well these a
big boy so I don't use these quite as
often but they are beautiful the ones I
used to most are these two right here
and this the smaller one is the bc 4 and
the larger one is the bc 3 I really like
to use both of these for highlighting
you can also use them for bronzing here
is
a size comparison for you the bc 4 is
about half the size of the bc 3 and they
just work really well for highlighting i
like to use this bc 3 for blush as well
finally for other highlighting brushes
these last three are all from Real
Techniques this first one is the bold
metals 300 cheek brush I think this was
so this was designed to use with blush
and also to use with highlight powder
you couldn't really use this for a lot
of things I prefer using this for
highlights also have to show some love
to the Real Techniques contour brush
this is another one of those brushes
that you can really do a lot of things
with I've used this for a foundation
I've used it with bronzer I've contoured
with it and the thing i like to use it
most for is highlighting it is a really
good sized brush for highlighting on my
face and it has i've had this brush for
34 years so instead the test of time
lastly for highlighting i actually to be
completely opposite from something like
this i really like using a much smaller
shader brush to do highlighting work
with a lot of the time or even touch up
powder so i can use this brush brush for
pretty much everything on my face you
know if i need to touch up my powder or
something i will always go in with a
fluffy kind of shader brush like this
because I'll just touch up where I need
it this is a great brush to highlight
with if I want a really precise
highlight it's also really nice to
highlight above the brow the nose above
the lip right here it just works really
well to highlight anywhere but i also
would use this with powder surprisingly
enough i've never used this brush for
eyeshadow which is what it was designed
for you totally could i just really like
to use this on the face other places
alright let's talk about blush brushes
again i'd like to give a nod to the Real
Techniques blush brush because it works
really well for blush as well as other
things I've already talked about also
the Real Techniques number 100 brush
this is super similar to my favorite
Sephora blush brush of all time which is
the
II precise natural counter 121 brush
this has been redone this is the old IT
brush the pro brushes have different
names and different stems so the hair on
this one the bristle is the exact same
as what you can buy a Sephora but it
does not have hot pink stem and it has a
different name and number so I was
trying to find that listed for you down
below again these are very very similar
this one however is a synthetic and
natural fiber makes this is completely
synthetic so they do a very similar job
but sometimes I will prefer the natural
fiber over the synthetic but as far as
shape goes this is what i like to use
for blush on myself i know that that is
a large plush brush and this for a lot
of people would be better suited as a
powder brush but i mean i had a lot of
cheek real estate as i like to call it
and so i can really use a larger brush
on my cheeks like these let's talk about
contouring i have three brushes to share
with you for contouring the first is a
synthetic brush from obsessive
compulsive cosmetics this does not have
a name on it it does not have a number
so i'll try to find that and let me
leave it for you down below but i have
been using this to contour with and i
like it a lot not really much to say
other than that it is a lot more dense
than my usual contour brush which is you
guys know is the face contour brush from
Sephora this has a different name
different stem again i'll leave it down
below i think it's the 79 i think it's a
79 but i can't remember exactly if you
look at these next to each other the
sephora is um actually they're about the
same length but the obsessive compulsive
cosmetics is a lot more dense i would
say probably thirty percent more dense
dense missa for one they both work
really well I wouldn't say like one over
the other I've used this one for years
and years this one is fairly new to me
like last 3-4 months so I've been using
a lot
but they both will do a great job
contouring the face other contour brush
that I love and I've used in tons videos
you guys have seen me use it a lot is
the Real Techniques bold metals 300
brush I believe this is actually called
the face contour brush so I'm actually
using a brush in its intended purpose
yay this is a very very unique brush and
it's very very good so it is quite
densely packed and it is fairly short if
we're going to look at this next to the
occ brush and get them even you can see
this is about half the length of the occ
contouring brush and it is super super
densely packed so this is going to
deliver a very very bold contour or brom
do you use this to braums as well and it
just gets a lot of product on your face
at once so you can blend it out and it
looks really pretty and it also fits
perfectly in the hollows of the face
let's go ahead and talk about some duo
fiber brushes which we've talked about
some already but let's talk about the
rest of them and I'll kind of explain
what i like to use them for it so this
guy is Lisa for a finishing powder
stippling brush it is a rounded duo
fiber brush which at the time when i
purchased this in a set don't know if
the set still available but again i'll
leave it down below if it is at the time
I purchases it was not available as an
individual brush but now it is um I love
this brush I use this for gels a lot of
time if I'm using a cheek stain or a gel
or cream blush that's what I like to use
this for this little elf smart stipple
brush and the regular elf stippling
brush are great they are super
inexpensive and they work very very
nicely I like to use this for cream
highlighting products because it is the
perfect size and it's a really nice
little duo fiber brush they did a nice
job with this and let three four dollars
maybe I don't know but it's a good brush
for what it is the other two stippling
brush is from the Real Techniques duo
fiber set this is doing
fiber contour and the duo fiber I brush
I like to use this one for highlights
especially if it's a cream or liquid and
I like to use I brush in the crease this
is actually really nice crease brush and
this is the only i brush I have that I
like to use the color pop matte shadows
with I don't like the matte shadows I
actually think that kind of suck unless
I'm using it with this brush this is the
only brush that I think really works
with those see I have this one this is a
newer brush to me I recently purchased
this and I love it this is the pro
contour highlight 80 brush from Sephora
I like to use this on pti so i will put
on concealer and i'll go in and I will
blend out that concealer to my little
hearts content and then I can also use
this with powder under the eye I don't
use this for highlighting and contouring
at all I really like to just use this
for Kim ceiling and stuff like that so
well this is kind of my new favorite for
concealer underneath the eyes my old
favorite a tried-and-true a ride or die
if you will which I will this is the
Sephora airbrush concealer number 57
brush this is magnificent this is so old
it has the old stem on it there now like
a beautiful inky black just like this
one this is the weird green silver from
a long time ago but I have like three or
four of these brushes they just don't
get any better than this this is so
densely packed and it's just perfect for
blending out the under eye area I've
done a whole face a foundation with this
brush before for really precise really
thin application you could use it on the
eye for shadow if you wanted I think
there's better uses for it or baking my
under-eye concealer i have another ride
or die brush this is the real techniques
setting brush I almost cannot do makeup
if I don't have this brush like this is
just as absolutely perfect perfect
perfect this is absolute perfection for
setting the under eyes with powder I've
seen people use this for contouring I've
seen a lot of people uses for
highlighting
for me you know you could do those
things with it it's a little too loose
for me to do oh did you see all that
powder come out if I use this debate
kids let's talk about lip brushes i have
200 my favorites one is actually an
eyeliner brush but i like to use it for
a lip brush if I'm going for a really
precise lip application the first one is
the obsessive compulsive cosmetics or
OCC this is their lip brush this is the
full-size one I have probably 18 none of
the mini sized ones i think i have a
couple more of these actually too but
this is the only one I grabbed this is
just a perfect shape for lip brush works
really well and this is a brush I don't
use on I don't use anywhere else on the
lips this brush is my Bobby Brown ultra
fine eyeliner brush this is the brush
that you use with her gel liner however
I don't like to use this with eyeliner
or gel liner I like to use this for lips
it is compared to the OCC brush it is
about half the size I know you guys
can't see that from all the way back
here maybe if I do that the Bobby also
comes to a point which I really liked
because it's nice to do some edging work
you can also apply a lip stick with this
without you I without using a lip liner
ok guys so the last brushes we have to
talk about our eye brushes and there are
a lot so take notes for brow brushes if
I'm not using a brow pencil or just a
gel and I'm using a powder i will use i
have several but these are really the
ones that I like to use most depending
on what I'm using this one is from our
dell and this is a little synthetic guy
it has a spoolie on the end of it i buy
these from sally beauty for like 3 99 i
have like four or five of them and i
like to use this with dip brow from
anastacio if i'm not doing the dipbrow
or the Aqua brow i will do a powder and
so for those i like to use a natural
fiber angled brush they're both the same
brush they're just this was in a set
this was
what is now the pro brush from Sephora
so they're the same bristles just
different they just look a little
different get into some I blending
brushes look at all of these look at all
those chickens that's not funny anymore
is it let's get down to the meat and
potatoes of this video this is my
favorite brush of all time I cannot do
makeup without this brush I know that's
a really like dramatic statement but it
is very true I cannot do nice I makeup
without this brush here's two of them I
have two more this is the Sephora Pro
crease number ten brush this is the
actual number and the actual name
because i have purchased them like
here's an old version you know like i
have lots of this brush this is my
favorite this is the best I blending
brush out there on the market in my
opinion you have an incredible amount of
give with this brush so you can really
do a lot of really nice blending work
it's also tapered a little bit so you
can get in there in the crease and you
can do some really nice crease work with
this blending brush which I love if you
were going to look at buying any of the
higher-end brushes that I have
recommended today this is be the one I
recommend and if you are in need of a
blending brush this is always the one
I'm going to recommend it because it's
my favorite and nothing else better in
my opinion song about these friends so
they look very very similar from a
distance however they are very different
this is a mac 217 if you watch youtube
videos you hear a lot of people talk
about this brush this is a really good
brush I will not lie to you this brush
is probably seven or eight years old
still going strong and I like it a lot I
think I have one more of these somewhere
this is a goat hair brush it blends
shadows incredibly and it is the perfect
size for working in the crease and
placing products
this one the guy that was like right
next to it this is a knockoff 217 brush
this is non goat this is actually cool
fibers so this is a good it's a good
complementary product to the 217 but
it's not as good in my opinion but if
you you know blending brushes are kind
of like I think you need like four or
five bloody brushes because you just you
just need some variety you need to have
something you can let if you're doing a
smoky eye you need like three blending
brushes at one time so well this 217 is
kind of like the cream of the crop you
can do really nice I work with these
little knockoff brushes this is a
blending brush that I was surprised i
like so much I don't like this more than
this for one but it is worth mentioning
this is the Sigma tapered blending efore
t brush I believe that's the correct
name a number or whatever because i
bought this like last year so i think
that's right i like to use this to
really soften the very outer most edge
of my shadow and to also apply my
highlight color for me this is a little
bit too long to do the crease work and
blending that I like my Sephora brush to
do but I do like it for getting that
last like nice little blend on the edge
of my shadow it works well for that
emily i want to mention this royal and
langnickel crease brush this is a
synthetic brush and I you know synthetic
crease brushes aren't my favorite but I
have really really really liked this one
I find that I can actually place color
with this brush and blend it at the same
time and then maybe hit it with like the
e-40 at the end or just hit it with like
I don't know my highlight color and it
looks good you know this brush kind of
does all in one if you're working with
like a really simple I look I wouldn't
use this to blend like three colors into
the crease but for just one like if I'm
just doing a simple I look and I just
want to put creme brulee for makeup geek
in my crease this will do the job and it
will do it
this is the Sedona waste night 0 for all
of these i like to use in a similar
fashion I like to use on the lower lash
line or like to go into the crease then
very precisely place color and then
blend it out with another brush so they
all serve a similar purpose and they're
all equally good I don't have a favorite
among them so i thought i'd mention all
three because there's inevitably
probably a price difference and some
might be sold out more often than others
so I just thought I'd mention them all
it could geek small crease brush um is
this one the Sedona lace 904 right here
and the royal and langnickel smudger
this one's a little bit longer and it's
a little bit more dense than the other
two so for this one i like to use more
with I guess cream product so I'll use
us to blend out a cream eyeliner it
works a little bit better than either of
these at cream products angled eyeshadow
brushes these are one of my favorite if
not my favorite eyeshadow like lid color
brush trying to use I have a couple to
show you this one's from Sephora and
these are all synthetic by the way this
one's from Sephora is the angled
eyeshadow brush this is limited edition
but the brush still exists this is from
royal and langnickel this is the angled
shader and this you can't buy
individually and then this is the Real
Techniques angled shadow brush this was
limited edition in a set but they do
make this one individually I believe
because I know I have another one of
these but I didn't buy the set twice
this just works really really well in my
on my eye shape especially I like to use
the point inside and angle it up swear
that's almost going into the crease and
it just makes applying eyeshadow really
simple to do some special spots
highlighting / my inner corner work this
is another brush that I would have a
hard time doing makeup without this is
the Sephora Pro shader 18 brush look how
tiny this brush is like look at how
small this is it's perfect I love to use
this on the inner corner of the eye I
like to use this up underneath the brow
I like to use this above the brow to do
some highlighting tip of the nose
to the artists Cupid's bow this is just
a really great brush you can use it with
I've actually i don't think i've ever
used it with creams but you could maybe
it's not synthetic so wouldn't be the
best i think it works better with
powders but you could probably use it
with careers because it's so small
hopefully this video gave you guys an
idea of some of the brushes and tools
that I like to use what a fine makeup
and answer some questions for you
hopefully you learned about some brushes
you didn't know about before today and
you see that there are a variety of
different tools out there you don't have
to use every single thing from neck to
do makeup as a matter of fact I don't
really care for mac brushes that's why I
only mentioned one there are lots of
options out there there are very
affordable brush options out there now
it wasn't always that way but in the
last several years less expensive brush
lines have been coming forward and I
think that is a very beneficial thing
for people like you and I out there so
hopefully you learned about some brushes
and checking the all the crap i'm
leaving down below you'll be able to
find them easily hopefully I've never
promised to mention all of these kind of
brushes and products before in the info
bar but I know I mentioned a lot so I
want to make sure I leave them written
down in case I was talking too fast or
set them wrong if you guys enjoyed this
video please make sure to give it a
thumbs up also don't forget to subscribe
to more fun that we have here on my
channel you can check out all my social
medias as well as secrets and a solid
foundation down below for you while
you're checking out all the names of the
brushes and let me know what you'd like
to see in upcoming videos are you guys
thank you so much for watching I will
talk to you in the next video I